---
title: Wellness
access:
  public: true
updated_at: 2022-04-26T00:00:00.000Z
---
#  Wellness for biomedical researchers

***Scientists are six times more likely than the general population to
suffer from depression and anxiety[^1]***

We're committed to helping you be resilient, self-confident, and to
thrive. Our wellness initiatives can enhance your training experience by
exploring topics that impact your professional development (e.g.,
cognitive distortions, assertive communication, stress management,
imposter fears). We'll help you develop the skills you need to support
your well-being throughout your career.

## Emergencies and after-hours care

If you are experiencing a medical or mental health emergency, call 911.

More [resources for after-hours care]

## Check in with a wellness advisor

OITE offers one-on-one wellness sessions on a short-term basis. A
wellness advisor can help you improve your well-being and productivity.
Wellness advisors can assess your needs, provide support, and offer
referrals for longer-term care.

Email <oite-wellness@nih.gov> to schedule your appointment.

## Upcoming wellness events

We offer wellness events including meditation, journaling, and drop-in
discussion groups for exploring self-care (Thriving Thursdays).

- **Journaling for career development and personal growth**
  
  Tuesday, May 03, 2022 4:00 pm ET - 5:00 pm ET

- **Mindfulness meditation**
  Wednesday, May 04, 2022 12:00 pm ET - 12:30 pm ET

[View all wellness events](/events?topic%5B%5D=Wellness%2Fresilience)

## Wellness groups for NIH trainees

Connect with your peers and explore wellness topics in a safe space. All
groups are facilitated by a wellness advisor.

-   [Resilience drop-in groups](https://www.training.nih.gov/oite_resilience_discussion_groups):
    Focus on topics like anxiety, depression, and self-compassion

-   [Wellness support groups](https://www.training.nih.gov/wellness_support_groups):
    Eight-week groups for trainees that have similar needs, experiences, or identities

-   [Wellness skill-building groups](https://www.training.nih.gov/wellness_skill-building_groups):
    Short-term groups focused on specific wellness topics (e.g., stress management, overcoming procrastination)

## Find an NIH community

A large part of feeling comfortable in your work environment is having a
community to share the experience with. We can help you find a community
where you'll feel at home.

Learn about [NIH
communities](https://www.training.nih.gov/you_are_not_alone)

## Wellness workshops

### Becoming a resilient scientist (annual offering)

This series starts in **September 2022**. This set of webinars and small
group discussions helps **undergraduate students, postbacs, graduate
students, and postdocs** develop the resilience needed to thrive in
high-knowledge environments.

[Read more and register for "Becoming a resilient
scientist"](https://www.training.nih.gov/nih_becoming_a_resilient_scientist_series)

### Mental health and well-being of biomedical researchers (monthly offering)

We offer a monthly online program focused on the health and well-being
of the biomedical research workforce. This program is **open to trainees
at all educational levels**. We also welcome staff from other
institutions. Our aim is to help you cope with stress and support others
under stress.

[Read more and register for "Mental health and well-being for
biomedical researchers"](https://www.training.nih.gov/new_seminar_series_mental_health_and_well-being)

## Featured OITE blog post on wellness

**Learning to embrace the present** *(Feb. 22, 2022)*

As students we reach many thresholds: graduating high school, getting
into college, getting into graduate school or medical school, completing
our postdoctoral fellowship, residence, or internship. Many times, we
spend a major portion of our time planning for the next threshold.

[Read this post](https://oitecareersblog.od.nih.gov/2022/02/22/learning-to-embrace-the-present/)
| [All posts on wellness](https://oitecareersblog.od.nih.gov/?s=wellness)

## Wellness videos for biomedical researchers

Check out [our YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/c/NIHOITE/featured) for wellness videos specifically for biomedical researchers.

### Featured video: Anxiety & anxiety disorders

{::video url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mkkx5DywVCM&list=PLxnpU66KqCcioT5aQGYzk0yrKcGv9qSxO&index=1" /}


[View more videos from our series on mental health and well-being for biomedical researchers](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLxnpU66KqCcioT5aQGYzk0yrKcGv9qSxO)

## FAES offers access to Talkspace

If you're an NIH trainee and you participate in the Foundation for
Advanced Education in the Sciences (FAES) insurance plan, you have
access to [Talkspace online therapy and psychiatry](https://www.training.nih.gov/talkspace).

[^1]: 
    Reported rates of depression and anxiety are more than 6-fold greater
    (39-41%) in biomedical trainees than in the general population (6%)
    (Abbot, 2020; Evans et al., 2018), Rates are greater still in
    marginalized graduate student populations (Abbot, 2020; Chirikov, et
    al., 2020.). This situation is not limited to trainees. A 2020 study of
    researchers from entry level to late career, primarily from the UK and
    90% in STEM fields, commissioned by the Wellcome Trust, reports that 52%
    of respondents have sought, are seeking, or would have liked to receive
    professional help for depression or anxiety during their research
    careers. Finally, a survey by the Student Experience in the Research
    University (SERU) Consortium determined that the prevalence of major
    depressive disorder and generalized anxiety disorder among graduate and
    professional school students increased by a factor of 2 and 1.6,
    respectively, between 2019 and 2020 (Chirikov, et al., 2020).

    Abbott, A. (2020). Huge Survey Reveals Pressures of Scientist's Lives.
    Nature, 577(7791), 460-461; \[original report: What Researchers Think
    about the Culture They Work In (2020), Wellcome Trust
    <https://wellcome.org/sites/default/files/what-researchers-think-about-the-culture-they-work-in.pdf>

    Chirikov, I., Soria, K.M., Horgos, B., and Jones-White, D. (2020).
    Undergraduate and Graduate Students' Mental Health during the COVID-19
    Pandemic, eScholarship,
    <https://escholarship.org/uc/item/80k5d5h>

    Evans, T.M., Bira, L., Gastelum, J.B., Weiss, L.T., & Vanderford, N.L.
    (2018). Evidence for a Mental Health Crisis in Graduate Education.
    Nature Biotechnology, 36(3), 282-284

    Gibbs, Jr, K. -D., Basson, J., Xierali, I.M., & Broniatowski, D.A.
    (2016). Decoupling of the Minority PhD Talent Pool and Assistant
    Professor Hiring in Medical School Basic Science Departments in the US.
    Elife, 5, e21393.
