---
title: 'Postbac Seminar Series: February 23, 2021'
date:
  year: 2021
  month: 2
  day: 23
start: 12:30 PM
end: 1:30 PM
open_to:
- Postbacs
topic:
- Science
- Communication
type: Series
updated_at: 2021-02-22 21:39:28.000000000 Z
---
Science isn\'t complete until the results have been shared with others,
and talking about your results is one of the important ways of making
them public. The Postbac Seminar Series provides a unique opportunity
for two Postbacs each month to present their research to a diverse
audience of their peers.  The atmosphere is relatively informal and
non-threatening.  The series allows Postbacs who attend to learn about
the different types of biomedical research being conducted at the NIH
while meeting other postbacs.  [Read more][1] about the seminar series.

**ONLINE MEETING INFORMATION:**

The meeting information will be shared by email. If you have questions,
please contact <span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Lucida
Grande', 'Lucida Sans Unicode', Tahoma, Geneva, Verdana, sans-serif;
font-size: 11.0104px; font-style: normal; font-variant-ligatures:
normal; font-variant-caps: normal; font-weight: 400; letter-spacing:
normal; orphans: 2; text-align: start; text-indent: 0px; text-transform:
none; white-space: normal; widows: 2; word-spacing: 0px;
-webkit-text-stroke-width: 0px; background-color: #ffffff;
text-decoration-style: initial; text-decoration-color: initial; display:
inline !important; float: none;">Ryan Bertoli</span>
&lt;[ryan.bertoli@nih.gov](mailto:ryan.bertoli@nih.gov)&gt; and <span
style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Lucida Grande', 'Lucida Sans
Unicode', Tahoma, Geneva, Verdana, sans-serif; font-size: 11.0104px;
font-style: normal; font-variant-ligatures: normal; font-variant-caps:
normal; font-weight: 400; letter-spacing: normal; orphans: 2;
text-align: start; text-indent: 0px; text-transform: none; white-space:
normal; widows: 2; word-spacing: 0px; -webkit-text-stroke-width: 0px;
background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration-style: initial;
text-decoration-color: initial; display: inline !important; float:
none;">Madaleine Niznikiewicz</span>
&lt;[madaleine.niznikiewicz@nih.gov](mailto:madaleine.niznikiewicz@nih.gov)&gt;.

 

This month\'s presenters are:
{: .h3}

**Name:** Maryam Yamadi (NCI)

<strong>Title: </strong>Ga13 signaling in germinal center B cells
suppresses lymphomagenesis in the mesenteric lymph node.

<strong>Summary: </strong>To generate high affinity antibodies, germinal
center B-cells execute signaling pathways to maintain the necessary
proliferation, apoptosis, random mutation, and migration. All of these
components are also classical hallmarks of cancer cells, making the
signaling pathways of the germinal center likely targets in the
development of B-cell lymphoma. It has been shown that Ga13 signaling in
germinal center B-cells is required for suppressing their outgrowth in
the mesenteric lymph node. Disruption of this pathway results in the
loss of germinal center confinement and proliferation leading to large
tumors almost exclusively of the mesenteric lymph node. My project aims
to further characterize aspects of the tumor microenvironment that may
be promoting the outgrowth of germinal center B-cells in the mesenteric
lymph node and by what mechanism is Ga13 able to suppress it.

**Bio:** I did my BS in Biochemistry and MS in Biology from American
University where I studied protein complexes maintaining proper organ
development in the model organism *Arabidopsis thaliana*. After studying
development, I became interested in immunology and the instructions
required for the development of tumors. I then came to do a postbac in
NCI before applying to PhD programs. My hobbies include playing piano,
drawing, and exploring DC.

** **

<strong>Name: </strong>Daniel Brock (NEI)

**Title:** A Multi-Omics Study of how Dietary Choices Modulate the
Epigenome of Aging Mouse Retinas

**Summary:** Photoreceptors are postmitotic cells responsible for light
detection.  Aging photoreceptors accumulate damage, resulting in gradual
vision impairment and increased disease disk.  Prior work revealed
aging-related epigenomic alterations in retinal photoreceptors targeting
energy metabolism genes, resulting in altered mitochondrial function
including a small but significant shift towards using fatty acids as
fuel.  Nutrients and metabolites are being increasingly realized to
influence the cellular epigenome, which led us to hypothesize that
dietary habits can potentially impact the health of the aging retina. 
We formulated experimental mouse diets for use in an aging cohort of
mice to investigate the impact of dietary supplements and nutrient
composition on the retinal epigenome.  Experimental diets include the
Mediterranean diet (rich in antioxidants and polyunsaturated fatty
acids) and a high-fat hyperglycemic diet.  Our study aims to elucidate
the potential of diet as a non-pharmaceutical alternative to promote
health of the aging retina.

<strong>Bio: </strong>Daniel graduated from the University of Washington
with a B.S. in biochemistry where he studied mitochondrial biogenesis in
response to circadian rhythm in photoreceptors.  He joined Dr. Anand
Swaroop's lab at the NEI and is currently investigating the interactions
between diet, metabolism, and epigenetics.  Daniel aspires to become a
physician scientist.

 

<strong>Name: </strong>Ethan Baratz (NIDDK)

**Research Title:** The iron chaperone PCBP1 protects the liver from
lipid peroxidation and steatosis

**Research Summary:** Iron is essential yet also highly chemically
reactive and toxic. The

mechanisms that allow cells to use iron safely are not clear, and
defects in iron management are a causative factor in the cell‐death
pathway known as ferroptosis. Poly rC binding protein 1 (PCBP1) is a
cytosolic iron chaperone that binds and transfers iron to recipient
proteins in mammalian cells. Although PCBP1 distributes iron in cells,
its role in managing iron in

mammalian tissues remains open for study, especially in the liver, which
is the primary storage organ for iron. Our project evaluated mice
lacking PCBP1 in hepatocytes, and the mechanism of how mismanaged,
labile iron caused them to develop fatty liver disease. 

**Bio:** I graduated from Vassar College in 2017 with a B.A. in
Neuroscience and Behavior. While an undergrad, I used a computational
approach to study statistical learning in human participants. After
graduating, I joined the Genetics and Metabolism section of the NIDDK
Liver Disease Branch, where we primarily study the cellular biology and
systemic physiology of iron-related diseases. I also conduct research as
a Special Volunteer for the NCI Pediatric Oncology Branch, where I study
the pharmacokinetics of chemotherapies in patients and non-human
primates.



[1]: https://www.training.nih.gov/postbac_seminar_series
