---
title: Discussion for Building Resilience - Habit Formation
date:
  year: 2021
  month: 6
  day: 4
start: 10:00 AM
end: 11:00 AM
open_to:
- Postbacs
- Graduate students
- Postdocs/fellows
topic:
- Wellness/resilience
type: Small group
updated_at: 2021-06-01 21:25:48.000000000 Z
---
This event is only for NIH Intramural Trainees currently in our postbac,
graduate student, and postdoc programs.  This session will be held
online via Zoom and the link will be distributed in NIH Trainee Listserv
announcements. If you need the link immediately please email
OITE@nih.gov. 

<span class="TextRun SCXW187502204 BCX0" lang="EN-US" xml:lang="EN-US"
data-contrast="none"><span class="NormalTextRun SCXW187502204
BCX0">Habits are hard to break and when we are faced with a monumental
shift in our day to day lives, isolation from whom and what we love, and
fear about the future, we are likely to rely on habits even more than
usual. </span></span><span class="TextRun SCXW187502204 BCX0"
lang="EN-US" xml:lang="EN-US" data-contrast="none"><span
class="NormalTextRun SCXW187502204 BCX0"
data-ccp-charstyle="normaltextrun">Come to a safe space where habit
building and modifying is the shared challenge and focus point.  Using
research on habit </span></span><span class="TextRun SCXW187502204 BCX0"
lang="EN-US" xml:lang="EN-US" data-contrast="none"><span
class="NormalTextRun SCXW187502204 BCX0"
data-ccp-charstyle="normaltextrun">formation</span></span><span
class="TextRun SCXW187502204 BCX0" lang="EN-US" xml:lang="EN-US"
data-contrast="none"><span class="NormalTextRun SCXW187502204 BCX0"
data-ccp-charstyle="normaltextrun">, along with some compassionate
support, you can gain the tools you need to develop a happier and
healthier you and </span></span><span class="TextRun SCXW187502204 BCX0"
lang="EN-US" xml:lang="EN-US" data-contrast="none"><span
class="NormalTextRun SCXW187502204 BCX0"
data-ccp-charstyle="normaltextrun">promote thriving.</span></span><span
class="EOP SCXW187502204 BCX0" data-ccp-props="{}"> This group will be
facilitated by OITE Wellness Advisor, Marin Rieger. The link for this
event can be found in the OITE morning mailing.</span>
