---
title: Academic Journeys and Building Networks
date:
  year: 2021
  month: 6
  day: 29
start: 12:00 PM
end: 1:00 PM
open_to:
- Graduate Students
topic:
- Teaching/mentoring
- Communication
- Career readiness
type: Small group
updated_at: 2021-06-17 17:43:44.000000000 Z
---
Are you a graduate student and thinking about ways to maximize your
overall research training?

Are you wondering what it takes to pursue an academic career and how to
prepare for the academic journey? 

Are you looking to build a network of mentors beyond your thesis
committee to provide guidance and support? 

If you answered yes to any of these questions, join us for the upcoming
"Academic Journeys and Building Networks" event and you can discuss with
and learn from two outstanding principal investigators.

 

Here's what you need to know.  

**The next Academic Journeys and Building Networks event will be held on
Tuesday, June 29th from 12-1pm**

 

**Featuring Dr. Sean Agbor-Enoh, M.D., Ph.D.  (NHLBI\|Hopkins) and Dr.
Catherine Weisz, Ph.D.  (NIDCD). **

 

This event provides graduate students like yourself the opportunity to
discuss strategies to develop, as well as improve, academic mentoring
relationships beyond your thesis committee. This event also provides
graduate students the opportunity to discuss what constitutes successful
graduate training experience, and to learn about how their specific
training experiences prepared them for an academic career. This event is
a discussion group that allows graduate students to ask questions and
learn in an informal, relaxed setting.

 

We welcome all graduate students (first-time and returning) to attend
this event. Please contact Indira Rao
([Indira.Rao@nih.gov](mailto:Indira.Rao@nih.gov)) or Béga Murray
([bega.murray@nih.gov](mailto:bega.murray@nih.gov)) with any questions.

 

**Event Details:**

*Zoom meeting link will be emailed upon completion of registration. *

 

ABOUT THE SPEAKERS:

**Dr. Agbor-Enoh** completed medical school at the University of Yaounde
in Cameroon, PhD at Georgetown, Residency and Chief residency at Johns
Hopkins Bayview, and a Joint fellowship in pulmonary and critical care
medicine at NIH Clinical Center and Johns Hopkins. He is now a Lasker
Clinical Research Tenure Track Investigator, NIH Distinguished Fellow
and Laboratory Chief of the Laboratory of Applied Precision Omics at
NHLBI. He is also an Assist Prof of Medicine at Johns Hopkins. He
research focuses on the use of cell-free DNA and other genomic
approaches in lung transplantation. He is the lead investigator of
multiple studies, including Genomic Research Alliance for
Transplantation (GRAfT), a consortium of NHLBI and thoracic transplant
centers, which include Johns Hopkins and COVID-19 Injury Map: a
consortium of 7 US centers and 1 center in Africa. He cell-free DNA
innovative work on COVID-19 have been identified and will be archived at
the NIH History Museum.

 

**Dr. Weisz** received a B.S. degree in Neurobiology from Cornell
University and a Ph.D. in Neuroscience from Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine. Her graduate work involved studies of synaptic
inputs and electrical properties of cochlear type II spiral ganglion
afferent neurons in the laboratories of Dr. Paul Fuchs and Dr. Elisabeth
Glowatzki. Post-doctoral work in the laboratory of Dr. Karl Kandler at
the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine investigated the
development of circuits between brainstem neurons involved in sound
localization. In 2015 Dr. Weisz moved to the NIDCD Division of
Intramural Research where she became Acting Chief of the Section on
Neuronal Circuitry. Dr. Weisz's laboratory investigates the synaptic
transmission and electrical properties of descending neuronal circuitry
in the auditory brainstem and cochlea using techniques of patch-clamp
electrophysiology, photostimulation including optogenetics, multiphoton
imaging, histology, and computational modeling.
