---
title: 'NIH SACNAS (Society for the Advancement of Chicanos/Hispanics and Native Americans
  in Science) Chapter Virtual Lunch: “Nourish to Flourish: A self-care workshop on
  avoiding burnout”'
date:
  year: 2021
  month: 7
  day: 7
start: 12:00 PM
end: 1:00 PM
open_to:
- Postbacs
- Graduate students
- Postdocs/fellows
topic:
- Communication
type: Small group
updated_at: 2021-07-01 23:31:29.000000000 Z
---
The NIH-SACNAS Chapter (Society for the Advancement of
Chicanos/Hispanics and Native Americans in Science) would like to invite
you to their July event. Join us on Wednesday, July 7th from noon to 1pm
(EST) to learn how to "Nourish to Flourish: A self-care workshop on
avoiding burnout"

The NIH-SACNAS Chapter will welcome NIH OITE Wellness Advisor Jenn
Wiggins to speak about ways to avoid burnout in science and life. Jenn
Wiggins is a full-time wellness advisor in the Office for Intramural
Training and Education (OITE). She is a licensed professional counselor
and holds a Masters of Arts in Counseling Psychology. As a wellness
advisor, Jenn advises trainees on issues that impact success in research
environments including, but not limited to, wellness, resilience,
diversity and inclusion, and identity formation. Additionally, she
facilitates small group discussions and trainings and develops
educational materials around wellness and resilience. Jenn enjoys
supporting trainees as they develop strategies and tools that promote
success.

Everyone is welcome! 

This will be online only. Registrants will receive meeting information
prior to the event.

For any questions, please contact Dr. Natasha Lugo-Escobar at
lugoescobarn@mail.nih.gov.  

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Who are we?: We are a professional SACNAS
chapter that provides a supportive and welcoming environment for
Hispanics/Chicanos and Native Americans trainees and staff at the NIH to
get together, exchange ideas, network, share successes, and strategize
about future goals. Our chapter holds monthly meetings focus on
scientific communication, networking, outreach, and career development
to provide our members with resources and tools to improve and
advance their careers. We are part of the National SACNAS organization
(Society for the Advancement of Hispanics/Chicanos and Native Americans
in Science). We welcome everyone to be part of our events.  If you are
interested in joining the chapter, please sign-up to our list-serv
(NIH-SACNAS). </span>

 

 
