---
title: 'Postbac Seminar Series: April 20, 2021'
date:
  year: 2021
  month: 4
  day: 20
start: 12:30 PM
end: 1:30 PM
open_to:
- Postbacs
topic:
- Science
- Communication
type: Series
updated_at: 2021-04-07 20:08:31.000000000 Z
---
Science isn\'t complete until the results have been shared with others,
and talking about your results is one of the important ways of making
them public. The Postbac Seminar Series provides a unique opportunity
for two Postbacs each month to present their research to a diverse
audience of their peers.  The atmosphere is relatively informal and
non-threatening.  The series allows Postbacs who attend to learn about
the different types of biomedical research being conducted at the NIH
while meeting other postbacs.  [Read more][1] about the seminar series.

**ONLINE MEETING INFORMATION:**

The meeting information will be shared by email. If you have questions,
please contact <span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Lucida
Grande', 'Lucida Sans Unicode', Tahoma, Geneva, Verdana, sans-serif;
font-size: 11.0104px; font-style: normal; font-variant-ligatures:
normal; font-variant-caps: normal; font-weight: 400; letter-spacing:
normal; orphans: 2; text-align: start; text-indent: 0px; text-transform:
none; white-space: normal; widows: 2; word-spacing: 0px;
-webkit-text-stroke-width: 0px; background-color: #ffffff;
text-decoration-style: initial; text-decoration-color: initial; display:
inline !important; float: none;">Ryan Bertoli</span>
&lt;[ryan.bertoli@nih.gov](mailto:ryan.bertoli@nih.gov)&gt; and <span
style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Lucida Grande', 'Lucida Sans
Unicode', Tahoma, Geneva, Verdana, sans-serif; font-size: 11.0104px;
font-style: normal; font-variant-ligatures: normal; font-variant-caps:
normal; font-weight: 400; letter-spacing: normal; orphans: 2;
text-align: start; text-indent: 0px; text-transform: none; white-space:
normal; widows: 2; word-spacing: 0px; -webkit-text-stroke-width: 0px;
background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration-style: initial;
text-decoration-color: initial; display: inline !important; float:
none;">Madaleine Niznikiewicz</span>
&lt;[madaleine.niznikiewicz@nih.gov](mailto:madaleine.niznikiewicz@nih.gov)&gt;.

 

This month\'s presenters are:
{: .h3}

**Name:** Ryan Stanton (NCI)

<strong>Title: </strong>RNA editors for functional microRNA target
mapping

<strong>Summary: </strong>MicroRNAs regulate &gt;60 percent of protein
coding genes as components of the RNA Induced Silencing Complexes with
Argonaut proteins. The mechanism by which microRNAs regulate mRNA has
not been defined fully. Therefore, the target repertoires of each
microRNA, and the regulatory networks of which they are a part, are not
resolved. Bioinformatic and biochemical approaches for target mapping
have supported some target identification. However, these methods
produce large numbers of false positive results, and previous work
demonstrated non-canonical targets are missed often in these approaches.
We hypothesized a RNA editing enzyme associated to a target-bound RISC
would metabolically alter the target, leading to target identification.
Therefore, we generated fusion proteins with an Argonaut binding domain
and an m6A editing domain. We aim to delineate the target repertoires of
individual microRNAs using these editors and direct sequencing.

**Bio:** Ryan graduated from Swarthmore College in May 2020, earning a
B.A. in Biology with a minor in Chemistry and Biochemistry. His thesis
evaluated how different physiological states, and the higher nitrogen
requirements associated with them, are correlated with differences in
the gut microbiota of two hummingbird species. He joined Dr. Shuo Gu's
research group within the NCI's RNA Biology Laboratory in August 2020.
Since arriving, he has explored nucleic acid metabolism through the
group's studies in microRNA biogenesis, stability, and turnover.

 

<strong>Name: </strong>Una Karanovic (NIAID)

**Title:** Investigating the lytic exit phenotype in *Chlamydia
trachomatis* infections.

**Summary:** *Chlamydia trachomatis* is an obligate intracellular
pathogen that infects the human female genital tract. Serious
complications of infection include ectopic pregnancy and infertility.
Chlamydial species have a conserved plasmid that we know is required for
persistence and encodes many important virulence factors. While
surveying plasmid-regulated genes, we discovered a phospholipase D
homolog that is highly regulated by the plasmid. Based on preliminary
research, we know that lytic exit of chlamydial organisms from the host
cell is a plasmid-dependent process. And, since phospholipases can
function to break down lipid membranes we suppose that our target gene,
CT084, may be responsible for the lytic exit phenotype. To confirm this
function, we will create a knock-out mutant of CT084, then compare
infection and lysis phenotypes to wild-type *C. Trachomatis* *in vitro*.

<strong>Bio: </strong>Una earned her B.S. in Microbiology in 2019 from
the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. Her undergrad research, in
conservation ecology, included an animal immunization trial against a
deadly amphibian fungal pathogen. She joined the NIAID Chlamydial
Diseases Section during the summer of 2020. Under the mentorship of Dr.
Harlan Caldwell, she is creating genetic knock-out mutants to elucidate
phenotypes of potential virulence genes in *Chlamydia trachomatis*.

 

<strong>Name: </strong>Lauren Thomas (NIMH)

**Research Title:** The Impact of Social Guidelines Under COVID-19 on
Attentional Biases to Threat

**Research Summary:** Examining how COVID-19's consequential social
guidelines and distancing have impacted both healthy and anxious
individuals' attentional biases to threat, measured by a dot probe
paradigm. 

**Bio:** Lauren graduated from University of Miami in 2020, with a B.A.
in Psychology. She is now a postbac IRTA in the Section on Neurobiology
of Fear and Anxiety under the supervision of Dr. Grillon and Dr. Ernst.

 

 



[1]: https://www.training.nih.gov/postbac_seminar_series
