---
title: 'NIH SACNAS (Society for the Advancement of Chicanos/Hispanics and Native Americans
  in Science) Chapter Virtual Lunch: Racism & Minority Mistrust with Research Institutions:
  What Should We Do?'
date:
  year: 2021
  month: 5
  day: 26
start: 12:00 PM
end: 1:00 PM
open_to:
- Postbacs
- Graduate Students
- Postdocs/Fellows
topic:
- Communication
type: Small group
updated_at: 2021-05-11 23:31:05.000000000 Z
---
The NIH-SACNAS Chapter (Society for the Advancement of
Chicanos/Hispanics and Native Americans in Science) would like to invite
you to a special event on Wednesday May 26th, 2021 at noon.

Come join us as we welcome Ms. Nicole (Coco) Villaluz and Dr. Kelvin
Choi to discuss the ways in which we, as future leaders in the sciences
and health-related professions, can honor and build trust within our
communities while conducting research. SACNAS is committed to learning
about what we can all do to promote racial and ethnic health equity. It
is our hope to increase accessibility to the inherent benefits that
research provides and bring it to the communities that have been
historically neglected.

 

Speaker\'s Biographies: 

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"><span style="text-decoration:
underline;">Ms. Nicole Coco Villaluz</span>
(Hidatsa/Assiniboine/Chamorro), the Director of Health Equity Programs
at ClearWay Minnesota. She has over eighteen years of experience in all
phases of community development, capacity building and mobilizing. CoCo
is one of the founding members of the Native American Tobacco Coalition
of Montana (NATCOM) and has partnered with many diverse organizations.
Some of CoCo's proudest accomplishments include passing the Fort Peck No
Smoking Resolution, being selected to present at the Auahi Kore
(Smoke-Free) Conference in Aotearoa (New Zealand) and passing the Ohinni
Candi Wakandapi/Chani Wakan K/Nusa Commercial Tobacco-Free Ordinance for
her home community. She is also the recipient of the Minnesota Public
Health Association's Paul and Sheila Wellstone Public Health Achievement
Award for 2020.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"><span style="text-decoration:
underline;">Dr. Kelvin Choi,</span> PhD, MPH, is a Senior Investigator
and Head of the Social and Behavioral Sciences Section at the Division
of Intramural Research, National Institute on Minority Health and Health
Disparities (NIMHD). He was recruited to the NIH as an Earl Stadtman
Investigator. Prior to joining NIMHD, he was an Assistant Professor at
the University of Minnesota. Dr. Choi received his MPH in Community
Health Education, and PhD in Social and Behavioral Epidemiology from the
University of Minnesota. Dr. Choi's research focuses on three
objectives: (1) examining the interrelationship between social
determinants and tobacco use in the US; (2) investigate factors that
reduce or worsen tobacco use disparities, e.g., tobacco marketing; and
(3) develop, evaluate, and forecast the impact of tobacco control
intervention on tobacco use disparities. His research has been published
in over 100 articles in peer-reviewed journals. Dr. Choi was a past
Co-chair and current Advisory Committee member of the Society for
Research on Nicotine and Tobacco Health Disparities Network, and a
member of the California Tobacco Control Program Evaluation Task Force.
In 2019, Dr. Choi received the Society for Research on Nicotine and
Tobacco Jarvik-Russell Early Career Award for his extraordinary
contributions to the field of nicotine and tobacco research.
Additionally, he has been recognized by the Tobacco Control and Nicotine
&amp; Tobacco Research, the top two journals in the field of tobacco
research, as Reviewer of the Year, and currently serves as a member of
the Editorial Advisory Board of Tobacco Control, and a consulting editor
of Psychology of Addictive Behaviors.</span>

Everyone is welcome! 

Registrants will receive the link to the meeting on the day of the
event.

For any questions, please contact Dr. Natasha Lugo-Escobar at
lugoescobarn@mail.nih.gov.  

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Who are we?: We are a professional SACNAS
chapter that provides a supportive and welcoming environment for
Hispanics/Chicanos and Native Americans trainees and staff at the NIH to
get together, exchange ideas, network, share successes, and strategize
about future goals. Our chapter holds bi-weekly meetings focus on
scientific communication, networking, outreach, and career development
to provide our members with resources and tools to improve and
advance their careers. We are part of the National SACNAS organization
(Society for the Advancement of Hispanics/Chicanos and Native Americans
in Science). We welcome everyone to be part of our events.  If you are
interested in joining the chapter, please sign-up to our list-serv
(NIH-SACNAS). </span>

 

 

 
