---
title: 'NIH SACNAS (Society for the Advancement of Chicanos/Hispanics and Native Americans
  in Science) Chapter Virtual Lunch: Cultural Competency in Science Communication'
date:
  year: 2021
  month: 3
  day: 18
start: 12:00 PM
end: 1:30 PM
open_to:
- Postbacs
- Graduate Students
- Postdocs/Fellows
topic:
- Communication
type: Small group
updated_at: 2021-03-30 15:47:02.000000000 Z
---
The NIH-SACNAS Chapter (Society for the Advancement of
Chicanos/Hispanics and Native Americans in Science) would like to invite
you to their March event. 

Join us on Thursday, March 18<sup>th</sup> at noon (EST) learn about
"**Cultural Competency in Science Communication.**" The NIH-SACNAS
Chapter welcomes Dr. Asher Williams, Dr. Laura Lindenfeld, and Dr. Kelly
Gonzales to speak about their role in the science communication field.
Come to learn about the importance of science communication in society,
how to engage and empower communities with scientific knowledge and how
we, as scientists, can become better communicators. 

Everyone is welcome! 

This will be online only. Registrants will receive meeting information
prior to the event.

For any questions, please contact Dr. Natasha Lugo-Escobar at
lugoescobarn@mail.nih.gov.  

<span style="text-decoration: underline;">Speakers Biography</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"><strong>Dr. Asher Williams </strong>is
currently a Presidential Postdoctoral Fellow at Cornell University where
her research is aimed at cell-free biosynthesis of conjugate vaccines
against emerging pathogens. She is also a part of a global team of
scientists and vaccine experts working with the United Nations to help
promote confidence around COVID-19 vaccines. Her graduate research
focused on engineering bacterial production systems to generate
pain-relieving compounds and anticoagulant drugs. Dr. Williams was
awarded RPI's Presidential Graduate Research Fellowship and during her
graduate career she mentored several graduate and undergraduate
students, presented at research conferences, and published over 10
co-authored papers in peer-reviewed journals, with a pending patent. She
served as vice president of the Black Graduate Students Association at
RPI, working on several initiatives to increase the recruitment and
retention of minoritized students in graduate education. Dr. Williams
was named an RPI Class of 2020 Changemaker and is listed as one of 1000
Inspiring Black Scientists in America and a 2020 MIT Rising Star in
Chemical Engineering.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">**Dr. Laura Lindenfeld **is the Executive
Director of the Alda Center, Dean of the School of Communication and
Journalism, and Vice Provost for Academic Strategy and Planning, and a
professor of journalism. She holds a PhD in cultural studies from the
University of California, Davis. As the Alda Center director, she
oversees a dynamic organization that has trained more than 15,000
scientists from around the world. The Center provides international
leadership in conducting and connecting research to practice to advance
effective science communication. As dean of the School of Communication
and Journalism, she oversees a team of dedicated faculty and staff,
including Pulitzer Prize winners, to educate and train the next
generation of multimedia journalists and communication professionals. As
a communication researcher, Dr. Lindenfeld\'s work draws inspiration
from the idea that we can make better, more informed decisions about how
we shape our collective future. She is passionate about supporting
scientists to share their work in more direct and engaging ways. Her
research focuses on how we can advance meaningful, productive
interactions with communities, shareholders, and decision-makers by
strengthening linkages between knowledge and action. Much of Dr.
Lindenfeld\'s research focuses on environmental sustainability
communication. Her work seeks to understand how we can support effective
stakeholder engagement and communicate science more effectively and
persuasively. </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">**Dr. Kelly Gonzales**, a citizen of the
Cherokee Nation of Oklahoma, is an associate professor at Oregon Health
&amp; Science University and Portland State University. Dr. Gonzalez
studies health disparities, particularly those related to diabetes among
American Indian and Alaska Native populations. She also researches the
influence of discrimination within the context of healthcare settings.
Dr. Gonzales has been recently appointed to the Oregon Health
Authority's COVID-19 Vaccine Advisory Council to provide guidance on
Oregon's vaccine distribution plan, including vaccine sequencing for
phases 1b, 1c and 2 of the state's vaccine distribution plan.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Who are we?: We are a professional SACNAS
chapter that provides a supportive and welcoming environment for
Hispanics/Chicanos and Native Americans trainees and staff at the NIH to
get together, exchange ideas, network, share successes, and strategize
about future goals. Our chapter holds monthly meetings focus on
scientific communication, networking, outreach, and career development
to provide our members with resources and tools to improve and
advance their careers. We are part of the National SACNAS organization
(Society for the Advancement of Hispanics/Chicanos and Native Americans
in Science). We welcome everyone to be part of our events.  If you are
interested in joining the chapter, please sign-up to our list-serv
(NIH-SACNAS). </span>

 

 

 
