---
title: Discussion for Building Resilience - Being Assertive and Having Difficult Conversations
date:
  year: 2021
  month: 4
  day: 14
start: 11:00 AM
end: 12:00 PM
open_to:
- Postbacs
- Graduate students
- Postdocs/fellows
topic:
- Wellness/resilience
type: Small group
updated_at: 2021-03-30 15:04:03.000000000 Z
---
This event is only for NIH Intramural Trainees currently in our postbac,
graduate student, and postdoc programs.  This session will be held
online via Zoom and the link will be distributed in NIH Trainee Listserv
announcements. If you need the link immediately please email
OITE@nih.gov. 

We all experience occasional conflicts within our professional and
personal lives, they are inevitable, but we may not all approach them
the same way. Sometimes we want to avoid or delay a difficult
conversation while the other person may feel like it is urgent. These
interpersonal conflicts can be particularly stressful and are inherently
more difficult to resolve because multiple people are involved. However,
there are communication tools that can help create a more
positive interaction and outcome. Let's talk about some of the conflicts
you may be dealing with now or conflicts that you have experienced in
the past -- what helped and what didn't? Would you approach it
differently now?  

Please join us for an online discussion with OITE Wellness Advisor,
Liann Seiter.   Building your resiliency and self-care skills now will
help you to successfully navigate through periods of growth, and will
serve you well throughout your academic and career path. The discussion
group provides a confidential and welcoming environment with other
trainees having similar experiences. Even if you can't join us for the
entire hour, we encourage you to still attend.  

 

<!--  /* Font Definitions */  @font-face 	{font-family:"Cambria Math";
	panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4; 	mso-font-charset:0;
	mso-generic-font-family:roman; 	mso-font-pitch:variable;
	mso-font-signature:-536870145 1107305727 0 0 415 0;} @font-face
	{font-family:Calibri; 	panose-1:2 15 5 2 2 2 4 3 2 4;
	mso-font-charset:0; 	mso-generic-font-family:swiss;
	mso-font-pitch:variable; 	mso-font-signature:-536859905 -1073732485 9 0
511 0;} @font-face 	{font-family:"Lucida Grande"; 	panose-1:2 11 6 0 4 5
2 2 2 4; 	mso-font-charset:0; 	mso-generic-font-family:swiss;
	mso-font-pitch:variable; 	mso-font-signature:-520090897 1342218751 0 0
447 0;}  /* Style Definitions */  p.MsoNormal, li.MsoNormal,
div.MsoNormal 	{mso-style-unhide:no; 	mso-style-qformat:yes;
	mso-style-parent:""; 	margin:0in; 	margin-bottom:.0001pt;
	mso-pagination:widow-orphan; 	font-size:12.0pt;
	font-family:"Calibri",sans-serif; 	mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri;
	mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; 	mso-fareast-font-family:Calibri;
	mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-latin; 	mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri;
	mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; 	mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New
Roman"; 	mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} .MsoChpDefault
	{mso-style-type:export-only; 	mso-default-props:yes;
	font-family:"Calibri",sans-serif; 	mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri;
	mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; 	mso-fareast-font-family:Calibri;
	mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-latin; 	mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri;
	mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; 	mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New
Roman"; 	mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} @page WordSection1
	{size:8.5in 11.0in; 	margin:1.0in 1.0in 1.0in 1.0in;
	mso-header-margin:.5in; 	mso-footer-margin:.5in; 	mso-paper-source:0;}
div.WordSection1 	{page:WordSection1;} -->
