---
title: 'NIH SACNAS (Society for the Advancement of Chicanos/Hispanics and Native Americans
  in Science) Chapter Virtual Lunch: Taking Ownership of Your Career: Developing a
  Plan'
date:
  year: 2021
  month: 1
  day: 21
start: 12:00 PM
end: 1:00 PM
open_to:
- Postbacs
- Graduate students
- Postdocs/fellows
topic:
- Communication
type: Small group
updated_at: 2021-03-30 15:47:02.000000000 Z
---
The NIH-SACNAS Chapter (Society for the Advancement of
Chicanos/Hispanics and Native Americans in Science) would like to invite
you to their virtual meeting. This weekly meeting will focus on creating
an Individual Development Plan.

Do you have a career plan? Do you know if you have the required skills
for your dream job? Figuring out the next step in your career and how to
prepare for it can be stressful. But developing a plan early on in your
career will help you get to where you want to go. Please join Drs.
Patricia Sokolove (Deputy Director, OITE) and Natasha Lugo-Escobar (OITE
HiSTEP 2.0 Program Director) to talk about establishing goals, enhancing
your professional skills, and implementing your plan.

This will be online only. Registrants will receive meeting information
prior to the event.

For any questions, please contact Dr. Natasha Lugo-Escobar at
lugoescobarn@mail.nih.gov.  

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Who are we?: We are a professional SACNAS
chapter that provides a supportive and welcoming environment for
Hispanics/Chicanos and Native Americans trainees and staff at the NIH to
get together, exchange ideas, network, share successes, and strategize
about future goals. Our chapter holds monthly meetings focus on
scientific communication, networking, outreach, and career development
to provide our members with resources and tools to improve and
advance their careers. We are part of the National SACNAS organization
(Society for the Advancement of Hispanics/Chicanos and Native Americans
in Science). We welcome everyone to be part of our events.  If you are
interested in joining the chapter, please sign-up to our list-serv
(NIH-SACNAS). </span>

 

 

 
