---
title: 'Postbac Seminar Series: May 27, 2021'
date:
  year: 2021
  month: 5
  day: 27
start: 12:30 PM
end: 1:30 PM
open_to:
- Postbacs
topic:
- Science
- Communication
type: Series
updated_at: 2021-05-06 22:02:32.000000000 Z
---
Science isn\'t complete until the results have been shared with others,
and talking about your results is one of the important ways of making
them public. The Postbac Seminar Series provides a unique opportunity
for two Postbacs each month to present their research to a diverse
audience of their peers.  The atmosphere is relatively informal and
non-threatening.  The series allows Postbacs who attend to learn about
the different types of biomedical research being conducted at the NIH
while meeting other postbacs.  [Read more][1] about the seminar series.

**ONLINE MEETING INFORMATION:**

The meeting information will be shared by email. If you have questions,
please contact <span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Lucida
Grande', 'Lucida Sans Unicode', Tahoma, Geneva, Verdana, sans-serif;
font-size: 11.0104px; font-style: normal; font-variant-ligatures:
normal; font-variant-caps: normal; font-weight: 400; letter-spacing:
normal; orphans: 2; text-align: start; text-indent: 0px; text-transform:
none; white-space: normal; widows: 2; word-spacing: 0px;
-webkit-text-stroke-width: 0px; background-color: #ffffff;
text-decoration-style: initial; text-decoration-color: initial; display:
inline !important; float: none;">Ryan Bertoli</span>
&lt;[ryan.bertoli@nih.gov](mailto:ryan.bertoli@nih.gov)&gt; and <span
style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Lucida Grande', 'Lucida Sans
Unicode', Tahoma, Geneva, Verdana, sans-serif; font-size: 11.0104px;
font-style: normal; font-variant-ligatures: normal; font-variant-caps:
normal; font-weight: 400; letter-spacing: normal; orphans: 2;
text-align: start; text-indent: 0px; text-transform: none; white-space:
normal; widows: 2; word-spacing: 0px; -webkit-text-stroke-width: 0px;
background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration-style: initial;
text-decoration-color: initial; display: inline !important; float:
none;">Madaleine Niznikiewicz</span>
&lt;[madaleine.niznikiewicz@nih.gov](mailto:madaleine.niznikiewicz@nih.gov)&gt;.

 

This month\'s presenters are:
{: .h3}

**Name:** Charlotte Talham (NIMHD)

<strong>Title: </strong>Social determinants of health and asthma
profiles of US sexual minority adults: A latent class analysis

<strong>Summary: </strong>Sexual minority populations, particularly
women, are more likely to have asthma than their heterosexual
counterparts. Social determinants of health such as socioeconomic status
and race/ethnicity are also known to be associated with asthma
prevalence, however, their combined effect is understudied. We conducted
latent class analysis (LCA) on a subpopulation of US sexual minority
adults (N=1,097) using 2001-2016 National Health and Nutrition
Examination Survey (NHANES) data. The LCA included socioecological
indicators with current asthma as the distal outcome. A four-class
solution was identified as the best-fit model for our analysis. Our
results showed that the profiles with the highest likelihoods of asthma
were majority bisexual and female, while the low-asthma-likelihood
profiles were homosexual and male.

**Bio:** Charlotte Talham is a postbaccalaureate fellow in the Health
Disparities and Geospatial Transdisciplinary Research Lab at the
National Institute on Minority Health and Health Disparities (NIMHD).
Under the guidance of Dr. Faustine Williams, Ms. Talham is involved in
research on the associations between social determinants of health and
disparities among im/migrant populations. Ms. Talham received her B.S.
in mathematics, B.S. in statistics and B.A. in economics from the
University of Florida in 2020.

 

<strong>Name: </strong>Rachel Bernstein (NIMH)

**Title:** Assessing the Structure of Pediatric Anxiety Symptoms

**Summary:** Pediatric anxiety disorders are characterized by a
propensity for enhanced fear responses in anticipation of potential
threat. While the DSM classifies anxiety into various distinct
diagnostic categories (Social Anxiety Disorder, Separation Anxiety,
Panic Disorder, etc.), clinical observations and research often find
substantial homotypic comorbidity, which complicates diagnosis and
treatment. Recent evidence suggests that these diagnostic categories
reflect fully interconnected symptom domains, providing evidence for a
conceptualization of pediatric anxiety as involving a shared core
perturbation that manifests along different domains, rather than
distinct disorders. These findings encourage continued research on
commonalities and links among different symptom manifestations of
pediatric anxiety, in hope to inform and better specify treatment
targets for affected individuals.

<strong>Bio: </strong>Rachel graduated from the University of Michigan
in 2020 with a B.A. in Biopsychology, Cognition and Neuroscience. She is
currently working with Dr. Daniel Pine's group at NIMH. Rachel's
research interests focus on the development and maintenance of pediatric
anxiety disorders, and other internalizing problems in youth.

** **

<strong>Name: </strong>Amanda Jiang (NINR)

**Research Title:** The Effect of Virtual Mindfulness-Based
Interventions on Sleep Quality: A Systematic Review of Randomized
Controlled Trials

**Research Summary:** Disrupted sleep affects approximately 40% of the
general and healthcare populations during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Mindfulness-based interventions (MBIs) have demonstrated efficacy in
improving sleep quality and may serve as an alternative treatment for
sleep disturbance. During the pandemic, virtually administered MBIs can
circumvent some of the challenges encountered with in-person delivery of
MBIs. The objective of this study is to systematically review randomized
controlled trials that employed a virtual MBI in populations with sleep
disturbance. Findings suggest that virtual MBIs are equivalent to
evidence-based treatments, and to a limited extent, more effective than
non-specific active controls at reducing some aspects of sleep
disturbance. Overall, virtual MBIs are more effective at improving sleep
quality than usual care and waitlist controls. Preliminary evidence also
provides some support that virtual MBIs have a long-term effect on sleep
quality. 

**Bio:** Amanda completed her A.A. at Wilbur Wright College and B.A. at
Smith College, where she majored in psychology with a specialization in
eating disorders. She joined the Brain Injury Unit (NINR/NIH) as a UGSP
Postbaccalaureate Fellow in June 2020. Amanda currently works with Dr.
Jessica Gill and Dr. Heather Rusch on studies examining the efficacy of
mindfulness and cognitive-behavioral interventions for post-traumatic
stress disorder and insomnia.



[1]: https://www.training.nih.gov/postbac_seminar_series
