---
title: Academic Journeys and Building Networks
date:
  year: 2021
  month: 2
  day: 23
start: 12:00 PM
end: 1:00 PM
open_to:
- Graduate students
topic:
- Teaching/mentoring
- Communication
- Career readiness
type: Small group
updated_at: 2021-02-22 18:46:56.000000000 Z
---
Are you early in your research career and wondering how to maximize your
overall research training?

Are you wondering what it takes to pursue an academic career and how to
prepare for the academic journey? 

Are you looking to build a network of mentors beyond your thesis
committee to provide guidance and support? 

If you answered yes to any of these questions, the "Academic Journeys
and Building Networks" event may be a terrific opportunity for you to
discuss with and learn from two outstanding principal investigators.
Here's what you need to know. 

**The next " Academic Journeys and Building Networks" event will be held
on Tuesday, February 23<sup>rd</sup> from 12-1pm (zoom link
below), featuring Dr. Natalie Porat-Shliom (NCI/CCR) and Dr. Eli
Boritz (NIAID/VRC). **This event provides graduate students like
yourself the opportunity to discuss strategies to develop, as well as
improve, academic mentoring relationships beyond your thesis committee.
This event also provides graduate students the opportunity to discuss
with both Dr. Porat-Shliom and Dr. Boritz on what makes for a successful
graduate training experience, and to learn about how their specific
training experiences prepared them for an academic career. This event is
styled as a discussion group that allows graduate students to ask
questions and learn in an informal, relaxed setting.

We welcome all graduate students (first-time and returning) to attend
this event. Please contact Béga Murray
([bega.murray@nih.gov](mailto:bega.murray@nih.gov)) or Indira
Rao ([Indira.Rao@nih.gov](mailto:Indira.Rao@nih.gov)) with any
questions.

##   
 About the speakers:

 

**Dr. Natalie Porat-Shliom** is an Earl Stadtman Investigator in the
Thoracic and Gastrointestinal Malignancies branch of the NCI. Dr.
Porat-Shliom received her B.Sc. in biology, M.Sc. in neurobiology and
Ph.D. in cell biology from Tel-Aviv University, Israel. Her Ph.D.
research was performed at the NIH, through the Graduate Partnerships
Program, under the supervision of Prof. Yoel Kloog (Tel Aviv University)
and Dr. Julie Donaldson (NHLBI, NIH). For her postdoctoral training, Dr.
Porat-Shliom joined the laboratory of Dr. Roberto Weigert (NCI, NIH)
where she specialized in intravital microscopy studying mitochondria in
the salivary gland for which she received the NIH Pathway to
independence Award (K99/R00). In 2018, Dr. Porat-Shliom joined the NCI
as a Tenure Track Investigator, where her research focuses on
understanding how normal and malignant cells metabolically adapt to
changes in nutrient availability and energy demand.

**Dr. Eli Boritz** is an Earl Stadtman Investigator and Chief of the
Virus Persistence and Dynamics Section of the Vaccine Research Center at
NIAID. Dr. Boritz began his HIV research career in the mid-1990s as a
summer student in the laboratory of Dr. John K. Rose. An interest in
fundamental and translational studies of host-virus interactions then
led him to pursue combined M.D./Ph.D. training at University of Colorado
Health Sciences Center in Denver. He completed his Ph.D. in the
Immunology Program studying HIV-specific CD4 T-cell responses with Dr.
Cara Wilson. After an internship and residency in Internal Medicine at
Johns Hopkins Hospital, he came to NIAID as a fellow in infectious
diseases. Following the clinical portion of his fellowship, he joined
Dr. Daniel Douek\'s laboratory at Vaccine Research Center, where he
worked to understand the cellular and molecular events that allow HIV
reservoirs to persist *in vivo*. He joined the NIH faculty to establish
the VPDS in 2017. 

 
