---
title: 'VFC Science Voices from Home: Ireland'
date:
  year: 2021
  month: 2
  day: 16
start: 10:00 AM
end: 11:00 AM
open_to:
- Graduate Students
- Postdocs/Fellows
- NIH Staff Scientist/Staff Clinician
topic: []
type: Major public event
updated_at: 2021-02-15 20:20:40.000000000 Z
---
Interested in career opportunities abroad? Ever thought about getting a
research position in Ireland after your postdoc at the NIH? Ever
wondered how to search for a job opportunity in Ireland? Here is a
chance to get some answers and advice from **NIH Alumnae Dunja Skoko and
Orla Casey** and **Ivan Houlihan, IDA Ireland** and **Simon Nix from the
Embassy of Ireland**. The NIH Visiting Fellows\' Committee and OITE are
hosting this Information Session.

To attend via webinar, please register using the following link:  
[https://attendee.gotowebinar.com/register/4637592024813213455][1]

*Bios:*  
**Dr. Dunja** **Skoko** is currently a Microscopy and Imaging Specialist
at SiriusXT.

Dunja is a biophysicist currently working as an imaging specialist at
SiriusXT in Dublin, Ireland. SiriusXT is developing world's first
table-top Soft X-ray microscope that is used for 3D structural imaging
of whole hydrated cells at resolutions between light and electron
microscopy.

Dunja's goal is to combine single molecule fluorescence microscopy with
structural Soft-X ray imaging in order to understand molecular
mechanisms of events in healthy and diseased cells.

Her passion for individual molecular events started during her PhD,
where she studied nuclear architectural organisation using single DNA
micromanipulation approaches. Dunja continued with single molecule
research at NIDDK, NIH, using fluorescent microscopy TIRF and
subsequently at NICHD, NIH using super-resolution microscopy PALM in the
lab of Jennifer Lippincott-Schwartz where this Nobel prize winning
method was developed.

**Dr. Orla Casey** is currently the Translational Project Manager at
Cancer Trials Ireland.

Orla Casey is the Translational Project Manager at Cancer Trials
Ireland. Her role involves development and management of translational
study activities, and interaction with researchers, clinicians, and
representatives from charities, academic groups, and industry. She
completed her degree in biochemistry at University College Cork,
Ireland, and received her Ph.D. from the National University of Ireland
Galway. During her postdoctoral training, she worked in the laboratory
of Dr Kathleen Kelly at NCI, and as a research fellow at Trinity College
Dublin, Ireland. 

**Ivan Houlihan**, Vice President at IDA Ireland Boston

Ivan Houlihan currently serves as Vice President for IDA Ireland in the
North East of the US based in Boston. Ivan works closely with clients in
the Biotechnology, Medical Technology and Food industry throughout the
North East of the US and Canada. He is responsible for advising clients
in these sectors on investment in Ireland.

Prior to his current role, Ivan served as Vice President for the South
East of the US based in Atlanta. He has also worked in various roles for
the organization in Ireland including Regional Development in the West
and Midwest of Ireland and the Medical Technology division.

Ivan holds a Certificate in Equine Science from the University of
Limerick, a BBS with a major in e-commerce from the Institute of
Technology Tralee and has a Graduate Certificate in Strategic Management
from Harvard University. Ivan has undertaken Executive Leadership
Programs at Michael Smurfit Business School.

**Simon Nix**, Justice &amp; Home Affairs Counsellor, Embassy of Ireland
at Washington DC

Simon Nix is the Justice and Home Affairs Counsellor in the Irish
Embassy in Washington DC. Prior to taking up this role Mr. Nix worked in
the Financial Services Division of the Irish Department of Finance and
the Criminal Legislation Division of the Irish Department of Justice.
Mr. Nix is a barrister and holds two degrees from the National
University of Ireland, Galway.



[1]: https://attendee.gotowebinar.com/register/4637592024813213455
