---
title: 'NIH SACNAS (Society for the Advancement of Chicanos/Hispanics and Native Americans
  in Science) Chapter Monthly Event: MD, DO, & MD-PhD Panel on Admissions & Diversity'
date:
  year: 2021
  month: 4
  day: 14
start: 12:00 PM
end: 1:30 PM
open_to:
- Postbacs
topic:
- Communication
type: Small group
updated_at: 2021-04-13 03:35:10.000000000 Z
---
The NIH-SACNAS Chapter (Society for the Advancement of
Chicanos/Hispanics and Native Americans in Science) would like to invite
you to their monthly event. 

*Feeling overwhelmed with medical school applications? This
panel *<em>will give </em>*an opportunity to learn more about the
application process and diversity directly from MD, DO and MD-PhD
admissions officers and incoming students*{::}*.*{::}* Our panelists
will share their perspectives and advice with students, and attendees
will be given the opportunity to participate in breakout
room*{::}*s*<em> with incoming or current MD, DO and MD-PhD
students. </em>

Everyone is welcome! 

Event
Link: [https://attendee.gotowebinar.com/register/2169885511935403789][1]{:
#share-reg-url .plAwLUVihzEw9Kyd target="_blank" rel="noopener
noreferrer"}.

For any questions, please contact Dr. Natasha Lugo-Escobar at
lugoescobarn@mail.nih.gov.  

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Who are we?: We are a professional SACNAS
chapter that provides a supportive and welcoming environment for
Hispanics/Chicanos and Native Americans trainees and staff at the NIH to
get together, exchange ideas, network, share successes, and strategize
about future goals. Our chapter holds monthly meetings focus on
scientific communication, networking, outreach, and career development
to provide our members with resources and tools to improve and
advance their careers. We are part of the National SACNAS organization
(Society for the Advancement of Hispanics/Chicanos and Native Americans
in Science). We welcome everyone to be part of our events.  If you are
interested in joining the chapter, please sign-up to our list-serv
(NIH-SACNAS). </span>

 

 

 



[1]: https://attendee.gotowebinar.com/register/2169885511935403789
