---
title: 'Postbac Seminar Series: January 28, 2021'
date:
  year: 2021
  month: 1
  day: 28
start: 12:30 PM
end: 1:30 PM
open_to:
- Postbacs
topic:
- Science
- Communication
type: Series
updated_at: 2021-01-28 18:39:12.000000000 Z
---
Science isn\'t complete until the results have been shared with others,
and talking about your results is one of the important ways of making
them public. The Postbac Seminar Series provides a unique opportunity
for two Postbacs each month to present their research to a diverse
audience of their peers.  The atmosphere is relatively informal and
non-threatening.  The series allows Postbacs who attend to learn about
the different types of biomedical research being conducted at the NIH
while meeting other postbacs.  [Read more][1] about the seminar series.

**ONLINE MEETING INFORMATION:**

**[https://us02web.zoom.us/meeting/register/tZwpdeypqT0uEtBzOYyyPUDT3vOjvaAJtGNd][2]{:
.c-link target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"
data-stringify-link="https://us02web.zoom.us/meeting/register/tZwpdeypqT0uEtBzOYyyPUDT3vOjvaAJtGNd"
data-sk="tooltip_parent"}**

The meeting information will be shared by email. If you have questions,
please contact <span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Lucida
Grande', 'Lucida Sans Unicode', Tahoma, Geneva, Verdana, sans-serif;
font-size: 11.0104px; font-style: normal; font-variant-ligatures:
normal; font-variant-caps: normal; font-weight: 400; letter-spacing:
normal; orphans: 2; text-align: start; text-indent: 0px; text-transform:
none; white-space: normal; widows: 2; word-spacing: 0px;
-webkit-text-stroke-width: 0px; background-color: #ffffff;
text-decoration-style: initial; text-decoration-color: initial; display:
inline !important; float: none;">Ryan Bertoli</span>
&lt;[ryan.bertoli@nih.gov](mailto:ryan.bertoli@nih.gov)&gt; and <span
style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Lucida Grande', 'Lucida Sans
Unicode', Tahoma, Geneva, Verdana, sans-serif; font-size: 11.0104px;
font-style: normal; font-variant-ligatures: normal; font-variant-caps:
normal; font-weight: 400; letter-spacing: normal; orphans: 2;
text-align: start; text-indent: 0px; text-transform: none; white-space:
normal; widows: 2; word-spacing: 0px; -webkit-text-stroke-width: 0px;
background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration-style: initial;
text-decoration-color: initial; display: inline !important; float:
none;">Madaleine Niznikiewicz</span>
&lt;[madaleine.niznikiewicz@nih.gov](mailto:madaleine.niznikiewicz@nih.gov)&gt;.

 

This month\'s presenters are:
{: .h3}

**Name:** Evan Dennis (NIAAA)

<strong>Title: </strong>SES, BMI, and Cortical Morphology/Neurocognition
in Children

<strong>Summary: </strong>Low socioeconomic status has been associated
with higher rates of childhood obesity as well as lower scores of
neurocognition and lower cortical volume, especially in the prefrontal
cortex. Previous studies have shown that obesity, as characterized by
BMI, is negatively correlated with both neurocognition and cortical
volume, however, the relationship between SES, obesity, and
neurocognition/cortical morphology has not been well characterized.
Here, we use data from the Adolescent Brain Cognitive Development study,
a public access longitudinal study following over 11,000 children
through development, to explore the mediating effect of BMI in the
relationship between SES and neurocognition/cortical volume in children.

**Bio:** Evan graduated in 2020 from the University of Michigan with a
B.S. in Neuroscience and a minor in Music. His undergraduate research
focused on the effect of a high sugar diet on neuronal behavior using
*Drosophila* as a model organism. Currently, Evan is a Postbac IRTA in
the Laboratory of Neuroimaging in NIAAA and is involved in clinical
research protocols that use PET and MRI techniques to study
neurophysiology underlying substance use disorders. He hopes to attend
medical school in the future.

\*\*\*\*\* 

<strong>Name: </strong>Michael Dieffenbach (NCI)

**Title:** Genome-scale CRISPR Knockout Screen to Identify Novel
Mechanisms of Immunotoxin Resistance

**Summary:** Recombinant immunotoxins are a class of targeted cancer
therapies composed of a toxic domain linked to an antibody fragment that
targets a cancer-specific antigen. While immunotoxins have been very
effective in treating certain types of cancers, resistance often
develops. I conducted a genome-scale CRISPR knockout screen to identify
gene knockouts that could cause resistance to immunotoxin therapy. By
identifying new mechanisms of resistance, we hope to develop new
combination therapies to improve treatment.

<strong>Bio: </strong>Michael graduated from the University of Central
Florida in 2018 with a degree in Biomedical Science. He then completed
his Master's degree in Pharmacology at the University of Oxford before
beginning his postbac in the lab of Dr. Ira Pastan at the NCI.

\*\*\*\*\* 

<strong>Name: </strong>Claire Punturieri (NIMH)

**Research Title:** Optimizing a reward-based neuroimaging task for
clinical drug trials

**Research Summary:** Behavioral tasks are often used in functional
magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies to elicit specific brain
responses. Recent repeatability experiments have shown low reliability
in some commonly used tasks. Additionally, many of these tasks are often
not standardized, meaning that comparisons across studies are difficult.
Furthermore, piloting tasks in the scanner is costly and often results
in small sample sizes. The monetary incentive delay (MID) task is a
probabilistic reward task that has been frequently used to study
anhedonia in patients with major depressive disorder (MDD) and has also
been used to evaluate anti-depressant drug response in this population.
We evaluated several variations of this task virtually using Amazon's
Mechanical Turk, a crowdsourcing website, with the goal of optimizing
the task to achieve the best results in the shortest amount of time.

**Bio:** Claire graduated from McGill University in 2019 with a B.A. in
Psychology. She completed two undergraduate research projects in the lab
of Dr. Anna Weinberg investigating maternal reward processing and reward
sensitivity in undergraduate students. Currently, she works in the
Experimental Therapeutics and Pathophysiology Branch under Dr. Carlos
Zarate with Dr. Jennifer Evans on several projects examining biological
aging, actigraphy data,

 



[1]: https://www.training.nih.gov/postbac_seminar_series
[2]: https://us02web.zoom.us/meeting/register/tZwpdeypqT0uEtBzOYyyPUDT3vOjvaAJtGNd
