---
title: 'NIH SACNAS (Society for the Advancement of Chicanos/Hispanics and Native Americans
  in Science) Chapter Virtual Lunch: Celebrating Black History Month'
date:
  year: 2021
  month: 2
  day: 25
start: 12:00 PM
end: 1:00 PM
open_to:
- Postbacs
- Graduate Students
- Postdocs/Fellows
topic:
- Communication
type: Small group
updated_at: 2021-03-30 15:47:02.000000000 Z
---
The NIH-SACNAS Chapter (Society for the Advancement of
Chicanos/Hispanics and Native Americans in Science) would like to invite
you to their weekly virtual lunch on Thursdays. 

Join us on Thursday, February 25<sup>th</sup> at noon (EST) to celebrate
**Black History Month **by learning about the "Genetic Consequences of
the Transatlantic Slave Trade." The NIH-SACNAS Chapter welcomes Dr.
Joanna Mountain and Dr. Steven Micheletti to speak about their
groundbreaking research in ancestry and population genetics. Speakers\'
biography below. 

 Registrants will receive meeting information prior to the event.

For any questions, please contact Dr. Natasha Lugo-Escobar at
lugoescobarn@mail.nih.gov.  

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">**Joanna Mountain, PhD**</span>  
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> <em>Senior Director of Research.
</em>Joanna Mountain is Senior Director of Research, where she is
responsible for overseeing research projects, ensuring the protection of
research participants, and developing approaches to evaluate and
interpret ancestry. Joanna earned a PhD in Genetics from Stanford
University and served on the faculties of the Anthropological Sciences
and Genetics Departments at Stanford University. Joanna spent two years
in Kenya as a Peace Corps volunteer and continues to be particularly
interested in the genetic diversity of Africa.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">**Steven Micheletti, PhD**</span>  
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> <em>Scientist II, Population Genetics.
</em>Steven is a Population Geneticist who works on Ancestry-related
features and diversity initiatives. As an expert in using tools from
genetics to study migrations, he also uses participant data to research
impactful historical events. Consequently, he is the lead author on
23andMe's landmark study *Genetic Consequences of the Transatlantic
Slave Trade*. Steven was a Fisheries Geneticist for the Columbia River
Inter-Tribal Fish Commission, implementing conservation of wild fish
populations through genetics research. In his free time, you can find
Steven outdoors 'herping,' or identifying species of reptiles and
amphibians. Steven holds degrees in biology from University of
California, Davis (B.S.), San Francisco State University (M.S.), and
Washington State University (PhD).</span>

 

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Who are we?: We are a professional SACNAS
chapter that provides a supportive and welcoming environment for
Hispanics/Chicanos and Native Americans trainees and staff at the NIH to
get together, exchange ideas, network, share successes, and strategize
about future goals. Our chapter holds monthly meetings focus on
scientific communication, networking, outreach, and career development
to provide our members with resources and tools to improve and
advance their careers. We are part of the National SACNAS organization
(Society for the Advancement of Hispanics/Chicanos and Native Americans
in Science). We welcome everyone to be part of our events.  If you are
interested in joining the chapter, please sign-up to our list-serv
(NIH-SACNAS). </span>

 

 

 
