---
title: Discussion for Building Resilience - Processing Loss & Transition
date:
  year: 2021
  month: 2
  day: 11
start: 1:00 PM
end: 2:00 PM
open_to:
- Postbacs
- Graduate students
- Postdocs/fellows
topic:
- Wellness/resilience
type: Small group
updated_at: 2021-01-29 16:54:00.000000000 Z
---
<span style="font-family: arial, helvetica, sans-serif;">This event is
only for NIH Intramural Trainees currently in our postbac, graduate
student, and postdoc programs.  This session will be held online via
Zoom and the link will be distributed in NIH Trainee Listserv
announcements. If you need the link immediately please email
OITE@nih.gov. </span>
{: style="text-align: left;"}

<span style="font-family: arial, helvetica, sans-serif;">Grief comes in
many forms and the process of grieving is uniquely individual, but
regardless of where you are in your process we can talk about ways to
move forward. The current state of the pandemic
has led to widespread feelings of loss and uncertainty which has
the ability to compound our other feelings of grief and loss.. In this
group, we can talk about the experience of loss, significant change,
and/or transition. Being mindful of our feelings is one way to start
processing grief, but we call also share other strategies and brainstorm
together.  </span>
{: style="text-align: left;"}

<span style="font-family: arial, helvetica, sans-serif;">Please join us
for a discussion with OITE Wellness Advisor, Kelly Donahue. The
discussion group provides a welcoming and confidential space to explore
positive and proactive ways to build resilience and self-care
skills.</span>
{: style="text-align: left;"}
