---
title: 'Postbac Seminar Series: June 22, 2021'
date:
  year: 2021
  month: 6
  day: 22
start: 12:30 PM
end: 1:30 PM
open_to:
- Postbacs
topic:
- Science
- Communication
type: Series
updated_at: 2021-06-16 23:32:17.000000000 Z
---
Science isn\'t complete until the results have been shared with others,
and talking about your results is one of the important ways of making
them public. The Postbac Seminar Series provides a unique opportunity
for two Postbacs each month to present their research to a diverse
audience of their peers.  The atmosphere is relatively informal and
non-threatening.  The series allows Postbacs who attend to learn about
the different types of biomedical research being conducted at the NIH
while meeting other postbacs.  [Read more][1] about the seminar series.

**ONLINE MEETING INFORMATION:**

The meeting information will be shared by email. If you have questions,
please contact <span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Lucida
Grande', 'Lucida Sans Unicode', Tahoma, Geneva, Verdana, sans-serif;
font-size: 11.0104px; font-style: normal; font-variant-ligatures:
normal; font-variant-caps: normal; font-weight: 400; letter-spacing:
normal; orphans: 2; text-align: start; text-indent: 0px; text-transform:
none; white-space: normal; widows: 2; word-spacing: 0px;
-webkit-text-stroke-width: 0px; background-color: #ffffff;
text-decoration-style: initial; text-decoration-color: initial; display:
inline !important; float: none;">Ryan Bertoli</span>
&lt;[ryan.bertoli@nih.gov](mailto:ryan.bertoli@nih.gov)&gt; and <span
style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Lucida Grande', 'Lucida Sans
Unicode', Tahoma, Geneva, Verdana, sans-serif; font-size: 11.0104px;
font-style: normal; font-variant-ligatures: normal; font-variant-caps:
normal; font-weight: 400; letter-spacing: normal; orphans: 2;
text-align: start; text-indent: 0px; text-transform: none; white-space:
normal; widows: 2; word-spacing: 0px; -webkit-text-stroke-width: 0px;
background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration-style: initial;
text-decoration-color: initial; display: inline !important; float:
none;">Madaleine Niznikiewicz</span>
&lt;[madaleine.niznikiewicz@nih.gov](mailto:madaleine.niznikiewicz@nih.gov)&gt;.

 

This month\'s presenters are:
{: .h3}

**Name:** Isabelle Hua (NINDS)

<strong>Title: </strong>Quantitative Analysis of Jumping Behavior in
Mice

<strong>Summary: </strong>The spinal cord is essential for many aspects
of normal behavior. As almost all body movements rely on the spinal
cord, understanding how spinal cells and circuits are organized and
function is fundamental to our understanding of the entire nervous
system\'s behavioral control. Our goal is to unravel how the spinal cord
encodes a simple movement. We will uncover the involvement of specific
neuronal cell types, using genetic techniques, fluorescent staining, and
behavioral analysis for a single movement (jumping) and try to
understand how the spinal cord encodes and mediates this behavior.

**Bio:** Isabelle earned her BS in Neuroscience and BA in Biochemistry
from the University of Washington in 2019. Her research there focused on
functional recovery following spinal cord injury using targeted,
activity-dependent spinal stimulation. She joined Dr. Ariel Levine's lab
in NINDS in 2020, where she is characterizing cells and circuits
involved in behavior using quantitative methods.

  

<strong>Name: </strong>Sydnee T. Gould (NIAID)

**Title:** *In Vivo* Classification of Mucosal-Associated Invariant T
Cell (MAIT) Proliferation and Functionality

**Summary:** Mucosal-associated invariant T cells (MAITs) are a unique
subset of T cells that demonstrate both innate and adaptive
characteristics. Interestingly, eliciting expansion and cellular
response of these immune cells has been difficult in specific animal
models, making them difficult to study. This research has aimed toward
identifying the functions of MAITs following multiple rounds of antigen
stimulation in order to better understand their functionality and
proliferation in different settings.

<strong>Bio: </strong>Sydnee was born, raised, and educated in New
Jersey. She graduated from Rowan University with a B.S. in Translational
Biomedical Sciences and certificates in Global Health and Forensics.
During her undergraduate career, Sydnee worked in many research
settings. Her primary research focused on the herpes simplex 1 viral
entry pathway, but she also spent time analyzing cellular responses to
influenza vaccines. Now, Sydnee is working as a postbac in Dr. Daniel
Barber's lab, characterizing MAIT cells and their potential application
in murine and non-human primate models involving SARS-CoV-2 and / or
tuberculosis.

** **

<strong>Name: </strong>Ugne Ziausyte (NIAAA)

**Title:** Latent Profile Analysis of Trait Impulsivity and Compulsive
Drinking Behavior and the Association with Drinking-Related Outcomes

**Summary:** In 2019, 14.5 million people aged 12 and up had alcohol use
disorder (AUD) in the United States. Alcohol use disorder (AUD) has been
theorized to progress from more reward-driven, impulsive drinking
behavior to more habit-driven, compulsive drinking behavior. This
project used Latent Profile Analysis (LPA) to identify drinking
phenotypes based on trait impulsivity and compulsive drinking and to
examine the association of these phenotypes to drinking-related
outcomes. Analysis included 440 participants recruited through an
alcohol screening sample. A 4-class structure was supported, with
classes showing significant differences with regards to drinking-related
outcomes. 

**Bio:** Ugne completed her B.S. in Biological Sciences at Carnegie
Mellon University in 2020. Her undergraduate thesis analyzed mouse
grooming behavior to identify the involvement of the basal ganglia in
developing OCD-like pathology, with a particular focus on the external
globus pallidus. Currently, she works in the Office of the Clinical
Director of the NIAAA studying alcohol use disorder.

 



[1]: https://www.training.nih.gov/postbac_seminar_series
