---
title: Academic Journeys and Building Networks
date:
  year: 2021
  month: 4
  day: 27
start: 12:00 PM
end: 1:00 PM
open_to:
- Graduate students
topic:
- Teaching/mentoring
- Communication
- Career readiness
type: Small group
updated_at: 2021-04-20 16:51:32.000000000 Z
---
Are you a graduate student and thinking about ways to maximize your
overall research training?

Are you wondering what it takes to pursue an academic career and how to
prepare for the academic journey?

Are you looking to build a network of mentors beyond your thesis
committee to provide guidance and support?

If you answered yes to any of these questions, join us for the upcoming
Academic Journeys and Building Networks event and you can discuss with
and learn from two outstanding principal investigators.

 

Here's what you need to know. 

**The next Academic Journeys and Building Networks event will be held on
Tuesday, April 27th from 12-1pm**

 

<strong>Featuring Dr. Megan Dennis, Ph.D.  (UC Davis, NIH-OxCam GPP
alumnus) and Dr. Steven D. Cappell, Ph.D.  (NCI\|CCR). </strong>

 

This event provides graduate students like yourself the opportunity to
discuss strategies to develop, as well as improve, academic mentoring
relationships beyond your thesis committee. This event also provides
graduate students the opportunity to discuss what constitutes successful
graduate training experience, and to learn about how their specific
training experiences prepared them for an academic career. This event is
a discussion group that allows graduate students to ask questions and
learn in an informal, relaxed setting.

 

We welcome all graduate students (first-time and returning) to attend
this event. Please contact Indira Rao
([Indira.Rao@nih.gov](mailto:Indira.Rao@nih.gov)) or Béga Murray
([bega.murray@nih.gov](mailto:bega.murray@nih.gov)) with any questions.

 

ABOUT THE SPEAKERS:

**Dr. Dennis** is an Assistant Professor in the Department of
Biochemistry &amp; Molecular Medicine in the School of Medicine at the
University of California, Davis. She received a bachelor's degree in
Biochemical Engineering from Michigan State University and a joint
Ph.D./D.Phil. in Human Genetics from the National Institutes of Health
and the University of Oxford, where she worked with Eric Green and
Anthony Monaco on the genetics of dyslexia. She then completed her
postdoctoral training with Evan Eichler at the University of Washington,
where she characterized complex genomic structural variation and its
role in human evolution and neurological disorders. Through her joint
affiliations with the UC Davis MIND Institute and Genome Center, she and
her team seek to identify genomic contributors to human neurological
traits and diseases.

 

**Dr. Cappell** received his B.S. in marine science and biology from the
University of Miami, FL. He obtained his Ph.D. from the University of
North Carolina, Chapel Hill, where he studied heterotrimeric G protein
signaling in yeast in the lab of Dr. Henrik Dohlman. He completed his
postdoctoral training as a Damon Runyon Cancer Research Foundation
Fellow in the laboratory of Dr. Tobias Meyer at Stanford University. His
postdoctoral research focused on understanding how the ubiquitin ligase
Anaphase Promoting Complex/Cyclosome is regulated during cell cycle
progression. He joined the Center for Cancer Research, NCI as an NIH
Stadtman Investigator in 2017. His lab's current focus is understanding
how single cells integrate diverse signals in order to make the decision
to divide and how errors in this decision making progress can lead to
diseases such as cancer.

 
